# notes on Generative AI and science

## Paper writing

Generative AI in scientific writing refers to the use of artificial intelligence algorithms to generate scientific text or content. This could include writing research papers, reports and theses. This technology can help to automate and speed up the scientific writing process, and can even assist in generating novel
ideas or perspectives.

Here we list the different policies by academic journals & communities regarding generative ai in scientific writing


### Elsevier (Journal of Systems and Software)

> Declaration of generative AI in scientific writing
> The below guidance only refers to the writing process, and not to the use of AI tools to analyse and draw insights from data as part of the research process.
> Where authors use generative artificial intelligence (AI) and AI-assisted technologies in the writing process, authors should only use these technologies to improve readability and language. Applying the technology should be done with human oversight and control, and authors should carefully review and edit the result, as AI can generate authoritative-sounding output that can be incorrect, incomplete or biased. AI and AI-assisted technologies should not be listed as an author or co-author, or be cited as an author. Authorship implies responsibilities and tasks that can only be attributed to and performed by humans, as outlined in Elsevier’s [AI policy for authors](https://www.elsevier.com/about/policies/publishing-ethics#Authors).
> Authors should disclose in their manuscript the use of AI and AI-assisted technologies in the writing process by following the instructions below. A statement will appear in the published work. Please note that authors are ultimately responsible and accountable for the contents of the work.
> Version of April 22 2024

https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/journal-of-systems-and-software/publish/guide-for-authors 


### IEEE

> Guidelines for Artificial Intelligence (AI)-Generated Text
> The use of content generated by artificial intelligence (AI) in an article (including but not limited to text, figures, images, and code) shall be disclosed in the acknowledgments section of any article submitted to an IEEE publication. The AI system used shall be identified, and specific sections of the article that use AI-generated content shall be identified and accompanied by a brief explanation regarding the level at which the AI system was used to generate the content.
> The use of AI systems for editing and grammar enhancement is common practice and, as such, is generally outside the intent of the above policy. In this case, disclosure as noted above is recommended.
> Version of April 22 2024

https://journals.ieeeauthorcenter.ieee.org/become-an-ieee-journal-author/publishing-ethics/guidelines-and-policies/submission-and-peer-review-policies/#ai-generated-text


## scientific project proposal writing and evaluation

> "We do not encourage you to incorporate AI tools into your evaluation. Also, note that the confidentiality requirements of the ISF might not be fulfilled by most AI platforms. If you choose to do so, your written evaluation is still considered a reflection of YOUR PERSONAL ASSESMENT of the proposal, and we hold YOUR referee report in the highest regard."

Israel Science Foundation (ISF)


> AI in applications! There is no prohibition against you as applicant using generative AI or other tools (digital or of another type) when you draw up your application. At present, you do not need to state whether you have used AI.
> AI in the assessment of applications Generative AI tools (ChatGPT or similar) must not be used in the scientific assessment of the applications. The assessment is a task that must be carried out by a specialist researcher who has been recruited based on their expertise in the area.

[Swedish Research Council](https://www.vr.se/english/applying-for-funding/applying-for-a-grant/guidelines-for-the-use-of-ai-tools.html)
